---
layout: pr
date: 2022-08-16
title: "Track in-flight HTLCs across payments when routing"
pr: 1643
authors: [jurvis]
components: ["InvoicePayer"]
host: dunxen
status: past
commit: d03d6a8
---

## Notes

* LDK currently does not track in-flight HTLCs across outstanding payments when it comes to routing. This can be problematic in cases
such as retrying payments where some parts failed: We won't consider the in-flight HTLC to occupy available liquidity across a path and
we'd end up reusing such a path on retry even if it does not have enough liquidity for both HTLCs, which is clearly not helpful.
* `InvoicePayer` (aliased to [`InvoicePayerUsingTime`](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/blob/main/lightning-invoice/src/payment.rs#L178)) is a utility for paying invoices
and sending spontaneous payments which can retry failed payment paths. It wraps a `Router`, a `Payer` (which `ChannelManager` implements), and other things needed for making payments.
* This PR introduces the ability to track in-flight HTLCs accross outstanding payments when routing to solve issues such as the one descirbed above.

## Questions

1. Did you review the (draft) PR? Concept ACK/nACK?
1. This is the first time we're digging deeper into LDK's payment logic and the `lightning-invoice` crate, so firstly,
what is the point of the `lightning-invoice` crate and what functionality does it provide?
1. In the `payment` module, what is the purpose of the `InvoicePayer` struct and how are `Payer` and `Router` involved when making payments.
1. How and where does this PR propose tracking the amounts for currently in-flight HTLCs?
How are these amounts considered when making payments?
1. On what conditions/events will we stop tracking the amounts for these HTLCs. What does "stop tracking" mean here?
1. TODO: Something around discussion about restarts.

