---
layout: pr
date: 2023-06-06
title: "Avoid generating unpayable routes due to balance restrictions"
pr: 2312
authors: [TheBlueMatti, naumenkogs]
components: ["Channel", "routing", "fees"]
host: dunxen
status: upcoming
commit:
---

## Notes

* Currently, when calculating the available balance we have for sending the next HTLC, there are cases where we overcount and end up
  generating routes which are not payable in reality, leading to payment failures. Originally, the [`outbound_capacity_msat`] for a channel was used
  when considering the maximum amount we can send in a single additional HTLC. However, due to factors such as HTLC in-flight limits, a channel's HTLC
  maximum value, or our feerate buffer, this balance could mismatch the amount we could actually send in an HTLC. It also doesn't take into acount any
  pending inbound or outbound HTLCs which have not fully resolved yet. The value has always been documented as "not exact" and not likely to be spendable.
* [PR 1435] split out an `next_outbound_htlc_limit_msat` from `outbound_capacity_msat` for more correctly handling next HTLC value limits. It takes into account
  pending outbound HTLC value to provide an *upper bound* for the actual value we can send in the next HTLC.
  It also addressed the max-in-flight-HTLC limit that was contributing to the inaccuracy mentioned above.
  However, it should be noted that since `next_outbound_htlc_limit_msat` is an upper bound, we could still generate routes that are unpayable if they're too small.
* PR 2312 addresses the lower limit for the next HTLC by introducing a `next_outbound_htlc_minimum_msat` for a channel. Things become a little more complex at the
  lower bound for HTLC amounts as dust limits come into play and adding HTLC outputs inherently changes commitment transaction fees. Things can get weird.

## Questions

1. Did you review the PR? [Concept ACK, approach ACK, tested ACK, or NACK](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#peer-review)?
1. What is the difference between "dust" outputs and "uneconomical" outputs and how do they affect Lightning payments?

More questions to follow.

[`outbound_capacity_msat`]: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/blob/ede06d84de6467404fd1f94c77ad327b815ea302/lightning/src/ln/channelmanager.rs#L1370
[PR 1435]: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/1435
