---
layout: pr
date: 2023-05-23
title: "BOLT 12 Offers message handling support"
pr: 2294
authors: [jkczyz]
components: ["offers", "onion messages"]
host: dunxen
status: past
commit:
---

## Notes

BOLT 12 offers essentially provide a way for a merchant to receive payments through the use of a static identifier (they can be long-lived).
Offers do not replace the need for something like invoices, in fact, they work in tandem. Readers of an offer will be able to request invoices
via [onion messages] using a [blinded path] to the merchant. This provides recipient privacy. In fact, any onion messages, not just for offers,
can use a blinded path.

PR [#2294] introduces onion message handling for offers so that LDK can interpret offer payloads. It also adds support for actually replying to
onion messages via reply paths in general which is an essential part of the offer protocol and other uses of onion messages. The reader of an
offer would create an `InvoiceRequest` payload to send to the merchant (to a blinded path provided in the offer contents) who would then reply
with an `Invoice` requesting payment or an `InvoiceError`. If an `Invoice` is received, the payer can then pay the invoice (also to a blinded path)
or respond with an `InvoiceError`.

```
         A successful flow
 ┌─────┐                   ┌─────┐
 │     │  InvoiceRequest   │  M  │
 │     ├───────────►(BP)──►│  E  │
 │  P  │                   │  R  │
 │  A  │     Invoice       │  C  │
 │  Y  │◄─(BP)─────────────┤  H  │
 │  E  │   (reply path)    │  A  │
 │  R  │                   │  N  │
 │     │     payment       │  T  │
 │     ├──────────►(BP)───►│     │
 └─────┘                   └─────┘

* BP: Blinded Path
```

The PR adds the `OffersMessageHandler` trait where implementors handle incoming `OnionMessage`s containing an offer message as payload.
`ChannelManager` implements this trait, but it remains a stub for this PR.

## Questions
1. Did you review the PR? [Concept ACK, approach ACK, tested ACK, or NACK]?
2. The PR introduces the `MessageRouter` trait for finding routes for onion messages. `MessageRoute::find_route` implementations must
   return a `Vec<PublicKey>` when provided a sender `PublicKey` and a `Destination`. What is a `Destination` in the onion
   messages context and which `PublicKey`s should an implementor be returning from `find_route`. Is `find_route` a good name? Any other
   ideas for a name?
3. To support replies, onion message handlers were modified to return an optional response message. How does a recipient know where a
   reply should be sent? When replying do we ever know the original sender (the reply's recipient) node ID/pubkey?
4. Currently a BOLT 11 invoice exposes the payee's node ID explicitly or via signature recovery. Without BOLT 12 (and blinded paths)
   and currently doable on the Lightning Network, is there any possible way to gain any level of privacy in this regard, or would
   the payer always know the payee's pubkey? How could we at the very least try make the effective payee not seem like the final
   recipient of the payment?
5. We've generally covered one kind of payment flow scenario up to now. What other payment flow does BOLT 12 enable and how does this
   differ to the one we've discussed?

[onion messages]: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/759
[offers]: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/798
[blinded path]: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/aad959a297ff66946effb165518143be15777dd6/04-onion-routing.md#route-blinding
[#2294]: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/2294
[Concept ACK, approach ACK, tested ACK, or NACK]: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#peer-review
