---
layout: pr
date: 2023-08-18
title: "Use a single peer state map for all channel phases in peer state"
pr: 2495
authors: [dunxen]
components: ["channel", "ChannelPhase", "ChannelManager", "PeerState"]
host: vladimirfomene
status: past
commit:
---

## Notes
* PR 2495 introduces the `ChannelPhase` enum with variants containing each existing channel struct so that they can be placed in a single map in `PeerState`.
* This was one possible design considered during the conceptual review of the `Channel` split and refactoring work, but seemed to introduce too much complexity at the time
  when combined with the `ChannelInterface` type that was considered earlier but later dropped. At this stage it makes sense to take another look at using an enum map going forward
  to address some short-comings of the existing (however simple) multi-map approach for `PeerState` channels - one issue being higher order map lookups in a few cases.

## Questions
1. Did you review the PR? [Concept ACK, approach ACK, tested ACK, or NACK](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#peer-review)?
1. What are the advantages of having a single map for unfunded and funded channel types per peer? What are the disadvantages?
1. We still want different types to differentiate between different unfunded and funded channels, how do we manage to have three different channel types
   in a single `HashMap`?
1. We'd like to introduce a proper type for channel IDs in LDK, as seen in [PR 2485](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/2485). If we further differentiate
   between channel types, such as having separate types for random V1 `temporary_channel_id`'s, txid-based V1 `channel_id`s, zero-XORed V2 `temporary_channel_id`s, and XORed V2 `channel_id`s,
   how would we handle this for keys, or is it best to stick to just using plain `[u8; 32]`s in the `channel_by_id` map?
1. What is the current phase of the moon? Please only answer with an emoji.
