---
layout: pr
date: 2023-04-27
title: "Support for custom feature bits"
pr: 2204
authors: [jkczyz]
components: ["lightning-custom-message", "features"]
host: dunxen
status: past
commit:
---

## Notes
* There are various locations in LN structures where support for certain functionality is advertised and made possible, as enumerated in [bLIP-0002](https://github.com/lightning/blips/blob/master/blip-0002.md):
	* [Feature bits](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/09-features.md) allows a node to publically advertise support for or requirement of a specific feature. Bits within the range `0-255` are reserved for BOLTs and so can not be used for custom features.
		* These feature bits can appear in the following contexts
			* `init` message (minimally sized `feature` field bitmask)
			* `node_announcement` message (minimally sized `feature` field bitmask)
			* `channel_announcement` message (minimally sized `feature` field bitmask)
			* BOLT 11 invoices (bLIPs only in range `256-5114` clarified by [bLIPs#24](https://github.com/lightning/blips/pull/24)
			* `allowed_features` field of a blinded path
	* LN message format: new message types can be used for custom features. Message types within the range `0-32767` are reserved for BOLTs. Custom features (bLIPs) must use types in the range `32768-65535`.
	* TLV fields in BOLT messages: included in the trailing TLV stream of a BOLT message. bLIPs must use types greater than `65536`.
* PR2204 adds the methods `provided_node_festures()` and `provided_init_features()` to the `CustomMessageHandler` trait. Implementers are then able to set and provide their own features.
* The PR also adds functionality for setting feature bits that are unknown to LDK with `Features::set_custom_bit()`, but the bit must be in the custom range defined by bLIP 2 of course.

## Questions
1. Did you review the PR? Concept ACK, approach ACK, tested ACK, or NACK?
1. What is the `CustomMessageHandler` trait and where do we delegate message handling to an implementer of this trait?
1. Why are custom feature bits in the invoice (I) context limited to the range `256-5114`? Why don't other feature contexts, such as `init`, `node_announcement`, etc, have this specific restriction.
1. Other than specified in the notes, there is another restriction that applies to `Features::set_custom_bit()` for bits in the custom range. What is it and how is it identified?
