---
layout: pr
date: 2023-10-13
title: "Include an `outbound_payment` flag in `MaybeTimeoutClaimableHTLC`"
pr: 2618
authors: [TheBlueMatt]
components: ["ChannelMonitor"]
host: dunxen
status: upcoming
commit:
---

## Notes

* In [PR 2476] the [`AvailableBalances::balance_msat`] field, which caused confusion due to its strange computation, was removed in favour of
  using `ChannelMonitor::get_claimable_balances` which is more straightforward for most use-cases and indicates balances claimable by the holder
  after taking on-chain fees into account.
* In [PR 2333] the [`Balance::claimable_amount_satoshis`] method was added, which excluded balances that we are unsure can be claimed (i.e. returns `0` for those balances).
  This makes sense on the surface, however, in the case of forwarding an HTLC, we know that we would either be able to claim the timeout balance from
  downstream or the preimage balance from upstream. Neither of these would be included in this calculation while the forwarded payment was still pending
  and not timed out.
* [PR 2618] (this PR) will include the timeout balance (`MaybeTimeoutClaimableHTLC`) but only in the case of forwarded payments. This offers a more accurate
  view of the claimable balance.


## Questions
1. Did you review the PR? [Concept ACK, approach ACK, tested ACK, or NACK](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#peer-review)?
1. How was the value of the (now removed) `AvailableBalances::balance_msat` field calculated and what was its intended usage?
1. What do we use instead of `balance_msat` for the above purpose?
1. Without the use of `balance_msat` how might a developer using LDK calculate an appropriate balance to show to an end-user? 
1. What should the `HTLCSource` of an outbound payment be? And for a forwarded payment?
1. What other fluctuations in balance do we still have after this PR for forwarded payments? How might we resolve these in a future PR?

[PR 2476]: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/2476
[PR 2333]: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/2333
[PR 2618]: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/2618
[`AvailableBalances::balance_msat`]: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/blob/7a63ab77da7e0be35b1c5d87643e5461cd593b94/lightning/src/ln/channel.rs#L69
[`Balance::claimable_amount_satoshis`]: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/blob/6016101ac8ff31275f31f68eef8d33e94b19c0b1/lightning/src/chain/channelmonitor.rs#L658
